Back in our theory project so to say, we learned about the basic positioning and layout and capabilities
of the grid and its children,
now let's dive into some shorthands and advanced positioning features,
let's start with the shorthands. One convenient shorthand, which you probably will use quite a bit, is
one which allows you to summarize the column, the grid column start and end or the grid row start and
end statements into one.
You can summarize grid column start and grid column end into just grid column and then the first value
is the start value, one, and then the second value is separated and that's important, is separated by
a slash, a forward slash and then you will simply add the end value.
So this shorthand here replaces the longer version I had before
and it works exactly the same for the row.
There we have grid row as a shorthand
with the start value which as you see can also be a name and the end value which also can be span 1.
So you really enter just the same values as you did for grid row start and end but now in this shorthand
notation. If you save that and reload, you shouldn't see any changes because it is just the same in the
end, it leads to the same result
but in a shorter way. There also is a shorthand which allows you to summarize all values into just one
property
and that's the so-called grid area property.
Now the grid area property has a clearly defined order of values.
First of all, you start with grid row start,
so with this value, row-1-start in this element three's case.
So you enter row-1-start, then a forward slash and then not,
and that's important, not the end of the row but the start of the column instead.
So we had the grid row start as a first value, the second value is grid column start,
so two in this case. Then you have another forward slash and now you add the grid row end, so grid row
start, grid column start, grid row end is row-2-end in this case and then another forward slash
and now obviously grid column end, so span three in this example. If we insert this and comment out the
longer version, we can save that and reload and we don't see any changes because we end up with the
same grid here, just with
this shorthand. Now feel free to use the in-between shorthand if this is a bit clearer to you,
this one exists though and is of course perfectly fine to use it, may even be better,
just make sure that your fellow developers are on board and also understand this.